Ariadne auf Naxos Strauss

Time 		2:13:16
Data premiery 	09.12.2022 r.

 The composer is stressed. His little opera ensemble is about to perform Ariadne auf Naxos, a grandiose opera of his own making, at the home of a wealthy man. But the very same evening a troupe of players led by the colourful Zerbinetta will also perform, and the two ensembles fight over who is to go first. The threat of cuts is driving the earnest composer to near breakdown. This is the comic prologue to the opera about Ariadne that the audience will be attending after the intermission.

 After Elektra and Der Rosenkavalier, the composer Richard Strauss and the librettist Hugo von Hofmannsthal were opera’s foremost duo in the first decades of the 20th century. They chose to follow up the two successes with a challenging experiment: an opera about an opera and a story about artistic creation. Ariadne auf Naxos is metafiction in its most enjoyable form, an opera that makes the audience aware of its own role in an entertaining way. It is a comic opera where spoken theatre is mixed with song. Strauss’ shimmeringly melodious and extravagantly orchestrated music is here performed under the baton of the Royal Swedish Opera Music Director Alan Gilbert.
 
CAST
----
The Major-Domo - Andreas T Olsson
The Music Master - Ola Eliasson
The Composer - Johanna Rudström
The Tenor / Bacchus - Michael Weinius
An officer - Jesper Taube
The Dancing Master - Petter Moen
A wigmaker - Jan Sörberg
A lackey - Johan Edholm
Zerbinetta - Sofie Asplund
The Prima Donna / Ariadne - Christina Nilsson

Harlequin
Jens Persson Hertzman

Scaramuccio
Jonas Degerfeldt

Truffaldino
Erik Rosenius

Brighella
Klas Hedlund

Naiad - a nymph
Madeleine Allsop

Dryad - a nymph
Kari Koskinen

Echo - a nymph
Agnes Auer

Puppeteers
Henrik Bäckbro
Linn Bergstam
Annika From Borg

Orchestra
Royal Swedish Orchestra

Music
Richard Strauss

Text
Hugo von Hofmannsthal

Conductor
Alan Gilbert

Director
Katharina Jakhelln Semb

Set Design / Costumes
Susanne Mûnzner

Light
Susanna Hedin

Puppet Design
Kirjan Waage
Gwendolyn Warnock
(Wakka Wakka Productions)

 OperaVision is a freeview opera streaming platform, supported by the European Union's Creative Europe programme. Watch live streams as the performances themselves unfold in the opera house. Enjoy a variety of shows - including opera, operetta, musical theatre, dance, ballet and concerts. Opera connaisseur or curious newcomer, there is something for everyone on OperaVision. 

WEBSITE: https://operavision.eu/
FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/OperaVisionEU/
TWITTER: https://twitter.com/OperaVision_EU
TIKTOK: https://www.tiktok.com/@operavision

OperaVision
