ZEMIRA E AZOR Grétry – Nationaltheater Mannheim
    
OperaVision

Data premiery	10.06.2023 r.
Time		2:26:24 min.
	
 In a lonely palace lives Prince Azor who has been transformed by a vengeful fairy into a beastlike form. When a foreign merchant disturbs the palace peace, the creature-occupant demands a human sacrifice as punishment. Zemira, the merchant’s daughter, is ready to give her life but soon discovers Azor's beastly form hides an altogether different soul. Will love save the day?

 Beauty and the Beast needs little introduction. Here the magical fairytale finds the form of an entertaining comedy by the Belgian-French composer André Grétry which premiered in Fontainebleau in 1771 with arias, a ballet and spoken dialogue that quickly conquered audiences far and wide. The version that had its first performance at the Mannheim Court Opera in 1776 was the first Italian translation of the opera, which replaced all spoken dialogue with recitatives. Now the Nationaltheater Mannheim’s new production of Zemira e Azor takes to the stage of the historic Schlosstheater Schwetzingen built in 1753. Conductor Bernhard Forck and the Akademie für Alte Musik Berlin join forces with director, set and costume designer Nigel  Lowery to breathe new life into this enchanting work.

CAST 
----

Zemira		-	Amelia Scicolone
Azor		-	Patrick Kabongo
Ali		    -	Raphael Wittmer
Sandro		-	Thomas Berau
Fatima		-	Seunghee Kho
Lesbia		-	Maria Polańska

Orchestra		    -	Akademie für Alte Musik Berlin
Music			    -	André-Erneste-Modeste Grétry
Ignaz Holzbauer		-	Niccolò Jommelli
Text			    -	Jean-François Marmontel, Mattia Verazi
Conductor		    -	Bernhard Forck
Directors		    -	Nigel Lowery
Sets and costumes	-	Nigel Lowery
Lighting		    -	Lothar Baumgarte
Dramaturg		    -	Xavier Zuber

 OperaVision is a freeview opera streaming platform, supported by the European Union's Creative Europe programme. Watch live streams as the performances themselves unfold in the opera house. Enjoy a variety of shows - including opera, operetta, musical theatre, dance, ballet and concerts. Opera connaisseur or curious newcomer, there is something for everyone on OperaVision. 

WEBSITE: https://operavision.eu/
FACEBOOK: https://www.facebook.com/OperaVisionEU/
TWITTER: https://twitter.com/OperaVision_EU
TIKTOK: https://www.tiktok.com/@operavision
